# MINING-FREQUENT-ITEM-SETS-ON-TEMPORAL-DATA.
Abstract : Temporal data contain time-stamping information that affects the results of data mining. Traditional techniques for finding frequent itemsets assume that datasets are static. Here, we are improving the efficiency of mining frequent itemsets on temporal data. Since patterns can hold in either all or some of the intervals, This is a new algorithm to restrict time intervals, which is called frequent itemset mining with time cubes. The notion of time cubes is proposed to handle time hierarchies. This is the way by which the patterns that happen periodically, during a time interval or both, are recognized. A new density threshold is also proposed to solve the overestimating problem of time periods.

Scope:
Applied our algorithm to market basket dataset with time stamps, but it can be used for any event related datasets. From managerial viewpoint, results of our algorithm can help managers to make better decisions. For example, in a grocery store, finding such patterns can help managers to change the layout of the store to increase selling profits.

Dataset :
A synthetic dataset is chosen rather than a real dataset so that a controlled experiment can be conducted.As the dataset is nontemporal, so it cannot be used directly.We have incorporated the temporal feature in the dataset; so, it can be a temporal dataset and can be handled by this algorithm. We developed a program for this. The program takes starting date, ending date, and synthetic data as inputs and randomly distributes data between the starting and ending dates. Dataset features such as number of items, number of transactions, average transaction length, and time span of the dataset can be set by the user.
